Alright we want to talk about getting
your development environment set up. So
I'm not going to go in too deep on the
specifics on this because it is a
requirement for this course that you
already know how to develop in Java. So
I'm not going to dive into the OS
specific nuances. I will provide some
links in the course resources if you
need that to where you can reference on
installing this but I do want to go
through the verification of what we'r
going to need to have installed on our
development environment for doing Spring
Framework development. So to get things
set up, we need to have the Java JDK 1.8
or higher. Make sure that is installed
and the version of Spring Framework 5
will only support 1.8 and higher. So if
you have something lower than Java 1.8
you definitely need to get that upgraded.
I am using maven 3.2.5. Maven is
pretty stable so we're not seeing a lot
of releases come out of that any more
and then ideally, I do include the maven
wrapper where you can run from the
command line. That is an option. I prefer
to have maven setup for command line use.
So you'll need to add on the maven
executable to your path and that's going
to be dependent upon whether you're
running Windows OSX or Linux and then
same thing with Gradle. I'd like to
see that installed from the
command line too. Again when I'm doing the
the maven and Gradle projects you can
include an executable with a
shell script to run those. That is pretty
handy to use but there's other things
that we'll get into doing some
troubleshooting and we might need to
do that. So I just prefer to have those
installed and fully configured. Now for
the IDE, I use IntelliJ and I started off
the course with 2017. And just right at the end of July in 2017.2
was just released. You'll see me
upgrade that in the course and with
IntelliJ, they're
pretty good. This just came out and they
also have a EAP program for early
adopters where you can get early
releases and I will often run the EAP
version as well. So I can get a hold of
the all the new features inside of
IntelliJ. So a few notes I want to talk
about IntelliJ. You do not need to have IntelliJ for the
course so I don't want to create that
impression. But like I said, IntelliJ 2017.1
and higher is used in all the coding
samples. If you are going to use
IntelliJ, I do recommend the Ultimate
Edition. I know there's a licensing fee
involved with that. The Community Edition
is free but it does not have spring
support in it. However you can get a
30-day evaluation and then if you are a
student or an open source
developer, you can also apply for a free
license for the IntelliJ Ultimate
Edition. And by student,
unfortunately online course students do
not qualify. You need to be at an
accredited university or school of some
sort and you can go over to IntelliJ or
JetBrains website and see the full
details on that.
Now other IDE's, you can use
SpringSource, STS is probably gonna be
the best option. All the code examples
are gonna be dependent from using
maven or Gradle. I do not check in any
IDE specific files. So I do like to keep
the source code agnostic and agnostic
means that it's not dependent on a
specific IDE. And STS has a come a long
way Eclipse. I'm not a
big fan of Eclipse nor STS. I've had some
bad experiences with those but a lot of
people do like them. So I'm not going to
bash them too much but my preference is
definitely towards IntelliJ. I honestly
haven't used netbeans and JDeveloper
in well over a decade so I do not know
the state of those. I have been hearing
decent things about STS and Eclipse so a
lot of people do like those.
Now the next thing we need to do is go
in and verify your environment. Make sure
that everything is set up properly. So
the first step we want to do is make
sure that Java is installed and
available from the command line. So I would
like you to go out to the command line and
run Java -version and make sure that
you have Java 1.8 or higher. I'm not too
concerned about the actual release level.
I think we're over 120 right now. I am
recording this in July of 2017 so we're
right on the eve of Java 9 being
released. I think it's September unless
it's been delayed again. I think Java 9
has been already delayed about 18 months
already. So like I said, we're on the eve of
Java 9 being released but we shall see
if they actually do hit that September
date. The next thing we want to do is
make sure that the JDK is installed and
this you can do javac for the java
compiler version. So if you just have the
Java Runtime, the JavaC will not be
there. So this is a good way to verify
that you do have the actual JDK
installed. JDK flavor, I typically use the
Oracle version. Open JDK is just fine as
well. So it's up to you depending on which
operating system you are running. If
you are using OSX or Linux, you'll have
an option there. I'm pretty sure windows
is primarily going to be Oracle but you
should also have the open JDK flavor
available there. So it is up to you. I
used to favour the Oracle
version but the open JDK version is
pretty stable now. Now maven, we will make sure that is
installed and available from the command
line and we can just go to the command
line run mvn -v and we'll see the
version output of that and then same
thing for Gradle. So gradle -v will
show us the version output of Gradle.
And I am going to toggle over and show
you these commands and use real quick
and we'll make sure that your
environment is up-to-date
for doing Spring Framework development.
Okay I am over on the command line now
and we want to go through these commands
make sure everything is up and running. So java -version, we get that i am running
Java 1.8 and tells me some
information about that and with java,
just -v does not work. You can see that that is not happy about that. So I'm
going to clear that out. javac -version
also, so that that gives us back with the
proper Java version or Java
compiler version. That tells me that the
JDK is in fact installed and do a clear.
maven -v that tells me that I do have
maven 3.2.5 and it shows you
some information about Java and maven
Home and what not. So your results might
be different depending upon the
JDK and where you have it installed and
of course your operating system. So clear
that. gradle -v and we can see that we
get an output of the Gradle. Get some
additional information about the groovy
and Apache ant as in there too. I forgot it
Apache ant was in Gradle but it tells us
some additional information about that. So these are the tools that you should
have installed for the course and this
has you all set up to do Java and Spring
Framework development.